Think back for a moment
on how Jehovah supported
his organization in ancient times.
One example is Bezalel.
Do you remember him?
Jehovah appointed him
to make furnishings for the tabernacle.
That’s quite a responsibility.
But what experience did Bezalel have?
His last job was making bricks in Egypt.
While it is possible
that he had some other skills,
how would he accomplish
something as grand as the tabernacle?
Exodus chapter 35 teaches us
that it was Jehovah
who gave Bezalel the wisdom
and the understanding to do the work.
Jehovah’s earthly organization today
faces similar challenges.
The brothers who took the lead
in setting up our first printery
had no prior experience,
and the same applies to the brothers
who produced our very first video.
You will enjoy this archive interview
with Brother Lyman Swingle,
who was part of that very first video team.
Brother Swingle was later appointed
as a member of the Governing Body
until he finished his earthly course in 2001.
The headquarters
of the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society
—a center of new world action.
We were given instructions,
“Well, why not make
“a film of world headquarters
and what we do here,
and show it in film.”
Well, I thought it was a great idea myself,
because I was interested in photography.
“Bethel” means the “House of God.”
How many people would like to visit here
but don’t have the opportunity?
Let them see what the New World Society
is in action
because, I think, a tour through this place
will give them the concept
of the whole organization.
They appointed a team of three
to write a script,
so they put this script together.
Just across the East River
from all of this . . .
There was a brother in Hollywood
who was connected with the film industry.
He was sort of an amateur photographer,
and he was around them all the time
and knew their techniques.
It’s like many of the other things
that the Society does;
they don’t have professionals to do it.
No, most are brought in here, and they learn.
Maybe they have a brother
like this brother who came here
and knew some of the basics.
We went over to New York
and rented the lights
and much of the equipment that was necessary.
All he did was bring his camera here.
At his desk, the Society’s president,
Brother Knorr . . .
We thought, well, it would be best
to start with the president’s office
and work down through copy
—following the copy
through its various processes.
We all work together for one purpose.
Someone does one thing,
and someone does something else.
Some work in the Treasurer’s Office;
some have to be president;
some have to be dishwashers
and serve food.
So it’s like the organs in the body.
Paul said:
‘The hand can’t say to the foot,
“I have no need of you.”’
We all need everyone.
Here is the publication
of the New World Society.
Jehovah has fed us through its pages,
and he will continue to do so.
After they shot it,
well, it had run longer,
taking longer than they expected.
It got into the time of the convention,
and the brother said, “Oh!”
He said: “Why don’t we take the convention
and put it on here too?
Why don’t we do it in color?”
Color in those days was really something,
and that even gave the film
a much bigger boost
since they’d been looking at black and white,
and then suddenly they get
a burst of color for the convention.
They had the trailer camp
(where everybody camped out there)
at Yankee Stadium,
and all of that was shown in color.
That really made
a real climax to that picture
because you weren’t used to seeing color
except in the big theaters.
In the evening, the students told
of life at Gilead
and entertained us with a pleasant program
of songs from their native lands.
There were some very trying moments,
wondering whether it was
ever going to be completed.
Because after we shot it
(the brother that shot it
was going to edit it too),
something came up in his life,
and he couldn’t do it.
Now, we’re stuck.
What are we going to do?
So then the decision was made:
“Well, let’s do it ourselves.
“We have never done it before,
but we will tackle it
and see what we can do.”
We got a lab over in New York,
and we made a deal with them:
“Look, we’ll give you the business
to duplicate these
“if you take somebody over there
and show them how to edit this thing.”
So for a few weeks, I went over there.
It’s like any project here, every job here.
For the average Bethelite when he comes in
—he doesn’t know anything
about running a press
or washing dishes or anything else
—we teach him.
So that was just another job.
You learn how to do it.
Amazing things, these.
But it is Jehovah’s spirit
that makes them possible.
It is his work, not man’s.
After we filmed the original,
we started editing it.
We saw there were some gaps in the film,
not smooth dissolves
from one department to another.
And the brother had gone away,
so we rented
a camera again and lights and so on.
And we came back and did it all on our own
—the brothers here.
We filled in some gaps so we could go
from one scene to another scene real smooth.
In one of those scenes, it shows
how you get the paper from the docks
up to the pressroom.
So we had a scene where they’re rolling
the paper off the truck
right into the camera,
and then the next scene shows
a roll of paper being rolled onto the press.
That made a nice transition
from the docks, where the paper comes in,
to the pressroom.
And there were some others like that
that we filled in later.
It was a complement to Jehovah’s people,
putting out something like that
back in those days.
It illustrates that you
don’t have to go off to college
and get a high education to do something
if Jehovah’s spirit is upon it
and blesses the project.
Many people have benefited from it.
It often, in my mind,
throws me back to what the brothers did
when they made
the “Photo-Drama of Creation.”
They too were amateurs at it.
But, my goodness, look at the final product!
But this one was really
the only film, I think, the Society made
where they planned out a script,
wrote the script,
and then followed through
on shooting it and editing it
and producing it themselves.
It’s the same way today.
When the Society undertakes something,
they strike out in open space
and start flying.
They never flew before,
and maybe they have
a few crash landings along the way,
but they pick themselves up
and get back up flying again.
The New World Society is indeed in action.
I think it’s another example
of how the Society has used technology
and various features
to further the advertising
of the King and the Kingdom
all down through the years.